The aim of the thesis, which is available in Czech in the file "diplomova_prace_Jan_Simunek.pdf", is to analyze the performance of different classification methods when dealing with unbalanced datasets. Specifically, the thesis focuses on evaluating the effectiveness of data balancing techniques such as SMOTE, undersampling and oversampling, and their impact on the performance of three selected classification methods: Logistic Regression, Random Forest and Hellinger Distance Decision Tree (HDDT). Furthermore, the aim is to determine whether the use of Leave-One-Out Cross-Validation (LOOCV) can improve the predictive ability of these models when dealing with unbalanced data. It is also tested what impact threshold setting using quantile has on the results.

In the file "1_myocardial2.R" there is a code that provided the results that I used, analyzed and interpreted in the mentioned thesis. This is one of five parts of the code, specifically the part of the code that relates to dataset 2: Myocardial Infarction Complication. The source data is located in the file "MI.data".

The code includes basic data processing and cleaning, removal of irrelevant variables using stepwise regression, creation of SMOTE, undersampled and oversampled data and their application to logistic regression, Random Forest and HDDT. In addition, the code includes the use of LOOCV and threshold setting using quantile. The last part of the code includes generating a table summarizing the metric values for evaluating the mentioned methods for LaTeX using the stargazer package and generating ROC and PR curve plots and exporting them.
